1️⃣ Question:
In a transaction, if I perform multiple updates and an error happens in the third statement, but I have not used SAVEPOINT, what will happen if I issue a ROLLBACK?
Will my first two updates persist?

The entire transaction is rolled back. None of the updates including the first two will persist.

2️⃣ Question:note
Suppose Transaction A updates Alice’s balance but does not commit. Can Transaction B read the new balance if the isolation level is set to READ COMMITTED?

No. In READ COMMITTED, a transaction can only see committed data. Transaction B will not see the uncommitted update by Transaction A.

3️⃣ Question:
What will happen if two concurrent transactions both execute:
UPDATE tbl_bank_accounts SET balance = balance - 100 WHERE account_name = 'Alice';
at the same time? Will one overwrite the other?

One transaction will acquire a lock on Alice’s row first, and the other will wait. Once the first transaction commits or rolls back, the second will proceed using the updated balance. There is no overwriting, and both changes apply sequentially.

4️⃣ Question:
If I issue ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT after_alice;, will it only undo changes made after the savepoint or everything?

It undoes only the changes made after the savepoint after_alice, not the entire transaction. Earlier changes remain.

5️⃣ Question:
Which isolation level in PostgreSQL prevents phantom reads?

SERIALIZABLE isolation level prevents phantom reads.

6️⃣ Question:
Can Postgres perform a dirty read (reading uncommitted data from another transaction)?

No. PostgreSQL does not support dirty reads, even at the lowest isolation level (READ COMMITTED).

7️⃣ Question:
If autocommit is ON (default in Postgres), and I execute an UPDATE, is it safe to assume the change is immediately committed?

Yes. With autocommit ON (which is default), every statement runs in its own transaction and is committed immediately after execution.

8️⃣ Question:
If I do this:

BEGIN;
UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance - 500 WHERE id = 1;
-- (No COMMIT yet)
And from another session, I run:

SELECT balance FROM accounts WHERE id = 1;
Will the second session see the deducted balance?


No. The second session will see the original (pre-update) balance because uncommitted changes are not visible to other transactions.